1. Syntax & Grammar

  LangArav is designed to be expressive but straightforward, reading almost like a hybrid of Python and custom scripting.

  Statements: Source code is parsed into an Abstract Syntax Tree (AST), which the interpreter then evaluates according to LangArav's execution rules.

  Method Chaining / Dot Notation: Supported for objects (e.g., img.meshWarp(10, 0.05)).

  Typing: Dynamically typed. The interpreter evaluates data types (integers, strings, image objects) at runtime.

2. Variables & Data Types

  Variables are created dynamically upon assignment. They can hold standard data types (ints, floats, strings, lists) or complex objects (like classes or Images).

  Assignment Operator: =

  Example:

  x = 10

  name = "LangArav"

  a = Aura() (Instantiates the Aura class and stores the object in a)
  
3. Operators

  Standard mathematical and logical evaluation happens here.

  Arithmetic: +, -, *, /, % (does addition, subtraction, multiplication, division and mod respectively)

  Logical / Comparison: >, <, and, or, not (compares through the greater than, less than , or, and, not respectively)

  Behavior: When parsed, the interpreter evaluates the left and right nodes of the operator and returns the result.

4. Comments

  The comments are denoted using the character #.

  Behavior: When parsed, the interpreter actually ignores anything which is placed after the # symbol until the line ends.

  Example:

  a = 1 # Variable declaration

5. Built-In Global Functions

  These are native hooks provided directly by the LangArav engine.

  print(): Outputs text, variables, or object states to the console for debugging and user feedback.

    Example: print("Hello World") or print(a)

  load(): Loads an image file from a path or URL into a variable as an Image Object so LangArav can manipulate it.

    Example: img = load("path/to/image.jpg")

  blend(): Takes two image objects and blends them together (likely using alpha compositing or specific blending modes).
  
    Example: final_img = blend(img1, img2, 0.5)

6. Functions

  Functions are declared using the special func keyword. They encapsulate logic that can be called repeatedly.

  Definition: Uses func followed by the function name and arguments.

  Example:

  Python

  func Greet() 
      # Interpreter executes this block
      print("Hello Sir")

  Greet() # Would do everything inside the function Greet()

7. Classes & Inheritance

  LangArav supports object-oriented structures, allowing you to define blueprints and instantiate them.

  Instantiation: You can assign an existing class to a variable. If you have an Aura class defined, you can create an instance of it by calling it like a function.

  Example:
  a = Aura()
  (This tells the parser to creates an instance of that class, which can store its own properties and access its defined methods inside a.)

  Inheritance: Allows a new class to inherit methods and properties from a parent class, letting you build complex structures without rewriting code.

8. Conditionals

  Control flow is handled by standard boolean logic checks.

  Keywords: if, elif, else.

  Behavior: The interpreter evaluates the condition. If true, then it jumps into that specific code block and ignores the rest.

  Example:

  Python
  if x > 10:
      print("High")
  elif x == 10:
      print("Perfect")
  else:
      print("Low")

9. Image Primitives (Drawing)

  Methods attached to an Image Object that draw basic shapes directly onto the canvas using coordinate geometry.

  img.rectangle(x1, y1, x2, y2, color, width)

  img.ellipse(x1, y1, x2, y2, color, width)

  img.polygon(points_list, color, width)

  img.arrow(x1, y1, x2, y2, color, thickness)

  img.line(...) & img.circle(...)

10. Image-Processing Methods

  Advanced manipulation methods attached to Image Objects. These execute complex algorithms (like OpenCV or FFT math) under the hood.

  Distortion: meshWarp, liquify, swirl, pinch, bulge

  Frequency / Math: bandpass, bandstop, notch, magnitude, phase, inverseFFT

  Edge / Feature Detection: sobel, scharr, laplacian, canny, harris, shiTomasi

  Analysis / Utility: entropy, sharpness, noise, PSNR, SSIM, objectCount, heatmap, falseColor, depthMap, vectorField

11. Errors & Exceptions

  How the LangArav engine handles bad code or illegal operations.

  Syntax Errors: Caught by the lexer/parser before execution (e.g., missing brackets, invalid characters like a rogue →).

  Runtime Errors: Caught during execution (e.g., calling an image method on a string variable, or dividing by zero).

  Behavior: The interpreter catches these exceptions safely, halt execution, and print a helpful stack trace or error message to the console rather than crashing the whole program.

11. LangArav's Core Design Philosophy

  LangArav is a domain-specific programming language centered around programmable image manipulation. 
  It combines familiar programming constructs such as variables, conditionals, functions, and classes with an image-oriented object model, allowing users to manipulate images through readable programmatic operations.
